# Contributing to Mod Installer

First off, thank you for considering contributing to Mod Installer. It's people like you that make Mod Installer such a great tool.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you are expected to uphold our Code of Conduct. Please report unacceptable behavior to [PROJECT MAINTAINER EMAIL].

## How Can I Contribute?

### Reporting Bugs

This section guides you through submitting a bug report for Mod Installer. Following these guidelines helps maintainers and the community understand your report, reproduce the behavior, and find related reports.

- Use a clear and descriptive title for the issue to identify the problem.
- Describe the exact steps which reproduce the problem in as many details as possible.
- Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps.

### Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Mod Installer, including completely new features and minor improvements to existing functionality.

- Use a clear and descriptive title for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- Provide a step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement in as many details as possible.
- Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps.

### Pull Requests

- Fill in the required template
- Do not include issue numbers in the PR title
- Include screenshots and animated GIFs in your pull request whenever possible.
- Follow the Rust styleguides.
- Include thoughtfully-worded, well-structured tests.
- Document new code based on the Documentation Styleguide
- End all files with a newline

## Styleguides

### Git Commit Messages

- Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Use the imperative mood ("Move cursor to..." not "Moves cursor to...")
- Limit the first line to 72 characters or less
- Reference issues and pull requests liberally after the first line
- Consider starting the commit message with an applicable emoji:
    - 🎨 `:art:` when improving the format/structure of the code
    - 🐎 `:racehorse:` when improving performance
    - 🚱 `:non-potable_water:` when plugging memory leaks
    - 📝 `:memo:` when writing docs
    - 🐧 `:penguin:` when fixing something on Linux
    - 🍎 `:apple:` when fixing something on macOS
    - 🏁 `:checkered_flag:` when fixing something on Windows
    - 🐛 `:bug:` when fixing a bug
    - 🔥 `:fire:` when removing code or files
    - 💚 `:green_heart:` when fixing the CI build
    - ✅ `:white_check_mark:` when adding tests
    - 🔒 `:lock:` when dealing with security
    - ⬆️ `:arrow_up:` when upgrading dependencies
    - ⬇️ `:arrow_down:` when downgrading dependencies

### Rust Styleguide

All Rust code should adhere to [Rust Style](https://doc.rust-lang.org/beta/style-guide/index.html) and be formatted using `cargo fmt`.

## Use of Generative AI

This project does not allow contributions generated by large languages
models (LLMs) and chatbots. This ban includes, but is not limited to, tools
like ChatGPT, Claude, Copilot, DeepSeek, and Devin AI. We are taking these
steps as precaution due to the potential negative influence of AI generated
content on quality, as well as likely copyright violations.

This ban of AI generated content applies to all parts of the projects,
including, but not limited to, code, documentation, issues, and artworks.
An exception applies for purely translating texts for issues and comments to
English.

AI tools can be used to answer questions and find information. However, we
encourage contributors to avoid them in favor of using the existing [readme.md](./readme.md). Since AI generated
information is frequently misleading or false, we cannot supply support on
anything referencing AI output.

## Additional Notes

### Issue and Pull Request Labels

This section lists the labels we use to help us track and manage issues and pull requests.

* `bug` - Issues that are bugs.
* `enhancement` - Issues that are feature requests.
* `documentation` - Issues or pull requests related to documentation.
* `good first issue` - Good for newcomers.

### Thank you!

Your contributions to open source, large or small, make great projects like this possible. Thank you for taking the time to contribute.
